=head1 NAME

parity, The Compiler Wrapper

=head1 Commandline Options for parity

Note: the "see config:<directive>" syntax means, that the corresponding
      <directive> is set by the described command line option, and this
      is described in configuration.txt.
      
Note: option matching done on incomplete option strings in some cases,
      so -fno-exceptions could be passed as -fno-except. parity will
      recognize both versions of the option. The lists below contain
      the minimum option required on the command line.
      
Note: GNU GCC supports the -Wl, option to pass options to the linker.
      Some of these options are hardcoded into parity, since passing
      options to the linker with -Wl, does not make any sense in parity.
      
Note: The Microsoft frontends are designed to _only_ work with the
      matching Microsoft backends. The reason for these frontends is,
      to enable usage of the advanced parity features with existing
      native windows build mechanisms.
      These frontends are rather simple, since they simply pass through
      every option, that is not required for parity's internals to
      function. only options that control parity's behaviour are handled
      inside parity, and passed (maybe unmodified) to the compiler.
      
=head1 General options (these apply to parity.gnu.* and parity.ms.*)

=over

=item B<-dbg> level

sets the debug level, see config:DebugLevel

=item B<-X> option

appends compiler option, see config:CompilerPassthrough

=item B<-Y> option

appends linker option, see config:LinkerPassthrough

=item B<-v>

dumps out parity's version information.

=item B<-ctxdump>

enables context dump, see config:CtxDump

=item B<-cfg> directve

parses configuration directive. everything described
in configuration.txt is valid as argument. Use it
like in this example: -cfg "DebugLevel=verbose".
-<section_name>	loads the given section from the configuration file in
use. for example "-windows" tries to load a section
called "windows" from the configuration file.

=back







=head1 parity.gnu.gcc options

=over

=item B<-C>

keep comments, see config:KeepComments

=item B<-O> level

set optimization, if level is omitted, level is set
to 2, see config:OptimizeLevel

=item B<-fomit-fr>

omit frame pointers, see config:OmitFramePointer

=item B<-finline>

enable inline expansion, see config:InlineFunctions

=item B<-fno-inlin>

disable inline expansion, see config:InlineFunctions

=item B<-msse>

enable SSE instructions, see config:UseSSE

=item B<-msse2>

enable SSE2 instructions, see config:UseSSE2

=item B<-ffor-sc>

enable for-scope policy, see config:ForScope

=item B<-fno-for>

disable for-scope policy, see config:ForScope

=item B<-fms-ext>

enable microsoft extensions, see config:MsExtensions

=item B<-fno-ms->

disable microsoft extensions, see config:MsExtensions

=item B<-ansi>

enable ANSI mode, see config:AnsiMode

=item B<-Wl,-rpath,><p>	

add runpath for linker, see config:RunPaths

=item B<-Wl,-e,><e>

set entry point, see config:EntryPoint and
config:SharedEntryPoint

=item B<-Werror>

treat warnings as error, see config:WarningAsError

=item B<-w>

disable warnings (set level to zero), see
config:WarningLevel

=item B<-W> level

set warning level, see config:WarningLevel

=item B<-fsyntax>

syntax check only, see config:SyntaxOnly

=item B<-fnostdinc>

ignore system include directories, see config:NoStdInlcudes

=item B<-D><d>[=<v>]
define <d>, see config:Defines

=item B<-U><d>

undefine <d>. if it was not previously defined through
the -D option, this is passed through to the compiler, to
make it possible to undefine built-in's, see config:Defines

=item B<-c>

compile only (don't link).

=item B<-fexcept>

enable exceptions, see config:ExceptionHandling

=item B<-fno-except>

disable exceptions, see config:ExceptionHandling

=item B<-frtti>

enable runtime type information, see config:RuntimeTypes

=item B<-fno-rtti>

disable runtime type information, see config:RuntimeTypes

=item B<-shared>

link a shared library

=item B<-fpic, -fPIC>

ignored for microsoft backend.

=item B<-E>

preprocess only (don't compile and link).

=item B<-I><dir>

add include directory, see config:IncludePaths

=item B<-L><dir>

add library directory, see config:LibraryPaths

=item B<-static>

prefer static libraries. when directly giving a library
on the command line, this is ignored. if passing a library
with the -l option, this makes parity ignore .so files.
Note: parity does not look at the real type of library on
behalf of this option, but only evaluates the filename.

=item B<-g>

enable debugable output, see config:Debugable

=item B<-x><lang>

force a specific language to be used (for example -xc++ to
compile even .c files as C++ code), see config:ForcedLanguage

=item B<-o> <file>

sets the output filename. this works for objects, executables,
shared libraries and preprocessor output.

=item B<-subsys> <s>

sets the sybsystem, see config:Subsystem

=item B<-fshort-wc>

use unsigned short as type for wchar_t, see config:ShortWchar

=item B<-fnoshort-w>

use built-in type for wchar_t, see config:ShortWchar

=item B<-M>

enable dependency tracking, including system headers.

=item B<-MM>

enable dependency tracking, excluding system headers.

=item B<-MF> <file>

with -M or -MM write output to given file instead of stdout.

=item B<-MD>

the same as -M -MF <file>, but parity does not stop after
dependency tracking. the <file> is either taken from a -MF
option, or the compiler output name with ".d" appended.
This includes system header files.

=item B<-MMD>

Same as -MD, but exclude system headers.

=item B<-MG>

During dependency tracking, assume that missing header files
will be generated, and thus output dependency information for
them. Normally, missing header files are ignored.

=item B<-MP>

Generate phony targets for every file except the main
dependency target. These are usefull to avoid errors when
calling make after removing a header file.

=item B<-MT> <target>

change the target for the dependency rule. this can be
any string, which is used in the form of "<target>:"


=back




=head2 -MT <target>

=over

=item B<-rpath> <p>

same as -Wl,-rpath, see config:Runpaths

=item B<-l><l>

add library. this searches for the library in all library
paths given until the -l option is encountered. directories
given after -l are ignored. if -static was given before this
option, this does not search for .so files. see
config:ObjectsLibraries

=item B<->

read the source file from stdin rather than from a file.
parity assumes C as the input languag if not otherwise specified
with a -x switch *before* the "-" option.

=item B<.lib, .obj,>

directly add a library or object file to the list of files to

=item B<.o,	.a, .so>

be processed while linking. this ignores the -static option,
but rather searches for the given file in all library paths
given before this option. see config:ObjectsLibraries

=item B<.c, .cc, .i,>

adds a source file to the list of files to either dependency

=item B<.ii, .cpp,>

track, preprocess or compile, depending on the combination

=item B<.cxx, .C, .asm,>	of -c, -M and -E switches. If neither -c, -E and -M are given

=item B<.s, .S>

each source is compiled to a temporary object file, which is
directly passed to the linker. in this case, the output
filename does not denote an object, but a final binary.

=item B<.res>

special extension handled by passing it through directly to
the linker.
					
					
=back
					

					
					
=head1 parity.gnu.ld options

=over

=item B<-L>

add library search path, see config:LibraryPaths

=item B<-Bstatic>

don't look for .so files, see parity.gnu.gcc -static option.

=item B<-Bdynamic>

reverses the above -Bstatic switch at a certain point on the
command line. this way it is possible to search for a few
libraries without taking .so files into account, and after
that return to the default search behaviour.

=item B<-shared>

see parity.gnu.gcc -shared option.

=item B<-g>

enable debugable output. normally the linker determines wether
to link debugable, by searching for debug information in object
files. passing -g can speed up linking slightly, since the linker
does no longer search for that information.

=item B<-o>

sets the output filename.

=item B<-subsys> <s>

see parity.gnu.gcc -subsys option.

=item B<-rpath> <p>

see parity.gnu.gcc -rpath option.

=item B<-e> <e>

see parity.gnu.gcc -Wl,-e option.

=item B<-l><l>

see parity.gnu.gcc -l option.

=item B<.lib, .obj,>

see parity.gnu.gcc .lib, .obj, etc. option.

=item B<.o, .a, .so>
	
see parity.gnu.gcc .lib, .obj, etc. option.
	
=back
	
	
=head1 parity.ms.cl options

=over

=item B</X>

see parity.gnu.gcc -fnostdinc option.

=item B</D><d>[=<v>]

see parity.gnu.gcc -D option.

=item B</U><d>

see parity.gnu.gcc -U option.

=item B</c>

see parity.gnu.gcc -c option.

=item B</DLL>

see parity.gnu.gcc -shared option.

=item B</E>

see parity.gnu.gcc -E option.

=item B</EP>

same as -E, but strips all "#line " directives.

=item B</P>

same as -E, but redirects output to a file, normally <basename_of_source>.

=item B</I><p>

see parity.gnu.gcc -I option.

=item B</LIBPATH:><p>

see parity.gnu.gcc -L option.

=item B</Zi>

see parity.gnu.gcc -g option.

=item B</Fo, /Fe>

see parity.gnu.gcc -o option.

=item B</TP, /TC>

see parity.gnu.gcc -x option, /TP is the same as -xc++ and /TC the same as -xc.

=item B</SUBSYSTEM:>

see parity.gnu.gcc -subsys option.

=item B</MT, /MD>

sets the runtime type to use. /MT forces use of the static runtime library,
and /MD forces use of the dynamic runtime, see config:Runtime

=item B</Tp<f>, /Tc<f>>

same as /TP and /TC, but force language only for one specific file.

=item B<.lib, .obj,>

see parity.gnu.gcc corresponding options.

=item B<.o,	.a, .so>

see parity.gnu.gcc corresponding options.
	
=item B<.c, .cc, .i,>

see parity.gnu.gcc corresponding options.

=item B<.ii, .cpp,>

see parity.gnu.gcc corresponding options.

=item B<.cxx, .C, .asm,>

see parity.gnu.gcc corresponding options.

=item B<.s, .S>

see parity.gnu.gcc corresponding options.

=back





=head1 parity.ms.link options

=over

=item B</DLL>

see parity.gnu.ld -shared option.

=item B</LIBPATH:><p>

see parity.gnu.ld -L option.

=item B</DEBUG>

see parity.gnu.ld -g option.

=item B</OUT:><f>

see parity.gnu.ld -o option.

=item B</SUBSYSTEM:><s>

see parity.gnu.ld -subsys option.

=item B<.lib, .obj,>

see parity.gnu.ld corresponding options.

=item B<.o, .a, .so>

see parity.gnu.ld corresponding options.

=back
